Port Bio Sampling is a GARFO run project! [Vic Vecchio at GARFO and Russ Brown]

Willing to consider anything that helps better "do" things

Even though GARFO doesn't use the data.  
	Should we move it back to NEFSC (housed in FMRD)  Same contractor is there.

End of the fiscal --- all the stock assesmsents "ask" for their stock coverage.
	2019 -- Garfo would cover the difference between the asks and the budget. Wow!
		Brian figures out total # of fish that can be lengthed --- then allocates those to individual species based on the analyst ask
		Also mid-year adjustments
			Sort of need to project where/what market cats are coming in.
			Flexibility -- if they don't see X, they can fill it with Y if there are no X's being landed.
			Need to match landings to a "trip"


Analyst gets a number of lengths, but they can allocate it to different categories as they see fit.
	
		



"samples requested" (a "sample" is a matched group of lengths and aes
	lengths requested
	ages requested
	Every age has a length. Not every length has an age
		Some dealers are not okay with this and will not let them take the head.

	Each sample "should" be from a different trip. 
	
For a species with multiple stock areas, a sample can only be taken from a subtrip that visits a single stock area.
	MA DMF pilot -- to keep fish separate. 

Try to balance across ports? dealers? vessels?
	If you sample a bunch of Jumbo Black Sea bass on 1 day, will you also do Mediums or Small from that same dealer/boat?
	What "sample" is brought back?

How do the samplers decide where to go and what to measure?

Intercept location varies a bit (dock, dealer, etc)
	Dockside unclassified might actually be classified later on. That's worrying.

	Up to the individual sampler to decide what to do based on their quarterly requests
		Talk to captains to hear what might be coming in
		Access to the vtracs to see what is going out and coming in.
			Alot of X being landed now, need to get them now before the fleets switch to Y.
		Contractors paid on a per-length basis.
			Lots of samples of things that are easy to measure.
			NEFSC not really at the table for the contract negotiations.	

		Need to ask a dealer or vessel owner for permission to measure and take lengths.

Will someone try to hunt down "Small's" from 


trying to allocate sampler dollars
	1.  No restrictions
	2.  in proportion to commercial landings
	3.  Assign stocks to tier
		High profile, high landings and Analytical Assessments
		high profile and analytical 
		remaining analytical 
		empirical 
		
	How do you feel about that? Advantages and disadvantages?

Pre 2020: 7 FT samplers
FY 2024: 3 FT and 1 PT

big drop in sampled fish
big drop in pct of requestes filled in 2024
MAFMC and MADMF are filling in gaps..well below 2019 coverage.

	MAFMC funded sampling is "opportunistic" and based on MAFMC prioritization.
		Did not work very well.
			NEFSC still puts in the sample requests, some on the standard contract and some on the MAFMC contract.
				Port samplers would collect alot on the MAFMC contract and not on ours. 
					7 regions, with at most 1 sampler. Understaffed.  Contracting company didn't staff up. lots of uncollected samples. Very hard time recruiting. 

	$3/sample.


mixed stock-area trips!


Gutted to whole weight factors. No weights taken -although MADMF does collect weights. Database system is set up, but port samplers don't do that.


There are some combinations of species-market cats that are 'hard to get'
	Each analysis has their own critiera for coverage -- just in case.


Lots of databases now
	CFDBS for "pre-CAMS" data
	CAMS came online, so now there is BSM for the "raw" length-age data. Now it goes into CAMS. In BSM, not all samples are allocated to specific areas yet. Still trying to work out. "stale" data in CFDBS AA.
